



Network Working Group                                           S. Sahib
Internet-Draft                                            Brave Software
Intended status: Best Current Practice                          S. Huque
Expires: 5 August 2026                                        Salesforce
                                                              P. Wouters
                                                                   Aiven
                                                               E. Nygren
                                                     Akamai Technologies
                                                             T. Wicinski
                                                      Cox Communications
                                                         1 February 2026


                  Domain Control Validation using DNS
         draft-ietf-dnsop-domain-verification-techniques-latest

Abstract

   Many application services on the Internet need to verify ownership or
   control of a domain in the Domain Name System (DNS).  The general
   term for this process is "Domain Control Validation", and can be done
   using a variety of methods such as email, HTTP/HTTPS, or the DNS
   itself.  This document focuses only on DNS-based methods, which
   typically involve the Application Service Provider requesting a DNS
   record with a specific format and content to be visible in the domain
   to be verified.  There is wide variation in the details of these
   methods today.  This document provides some best practices to avoid
   known problems.

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/ietf-wg-dnsop/draft-ietf-dnsop-domain-
   verification-techniques/.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 5 August 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Purpose of Domain Control Validation
   4.  Threat Model
     4.1.  Hazards leading to Unauthorized Priviledges (UL1)
     4.2.  Hazards leading to Unintended Access to Domain Resources
           (UL2)
   5.  Scope of Validation
   6.  Recommendations
     6.1.  TXT Record based Validation
       6.1.1.  Unique Token
       6.1.2.  Token Metadata
     6.2.  Validation Record Owner Name
     6.3.  Time-bound checking and Expiration
     6.4.  TTL Considerations
   7.  Delegated Domain Control Validation
   8.  Security Considerations
     8.1.  Token Collisions
     8.2.  Service Confusion
     8.3.  Service Collision
     8.4.  Scope Confusion
     8.5.  Authenticated Channels
     8.6.  DNS Spoofing and DNSSEC Validation
     8.7.  Application Usage Enumeration
     8.8.  Public Suffixes
     8.9.  Unintentional Persistence
     8.10. Reintroduction of Validation Records
     8.11. Validations not Coupled to Users
   9.  Privacy Considerations
   10. IANA Considerations
   11. References
     11.1.  Normative References
     11.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Appendix
     A.1.  Common Pitfalls
     A.2.  Domain Boundaries
     A.3.  Interactions with DNAME
   Appendix B.  Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   Many Application Service Providers of internet services need domain
   owners to prove that they control a particular DNS domain before the
   Application Service Provider can operate services for or grant some
   privilege to that domain.  For instance, Certification Authorities
   (CAs) ask requesters of TLS certificates to prove that they operate
   the domain they are requesting the certificate for.  Application
   Service Providers generally allow for several different ways of
   proving control of a domain.  In practice, DNS-based methods take the
   form of the Application Service Provider generating a Unique Token
   and asking the requester to create a DNS record containing this
   Unique Token and placing it at a location within the domain that the
   Application Service Provider can query for.

   This document recommends using a TXT based DNS Validation Record in a
   way that is targeted to the specific application service, and uses
   Unique Tokens to guarantee uniqueness.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   *  Application Service Provider: an internet-based provider of a
      service, for e.g., a Certification Authority or a service that
      allows for user-controlled websites.  These services often require
      a User to verify that they control a domain.  The Application
      Service Provider may be implementing a standard protocol for
      domain validation (such as [RFC8555]) or they may have their own
      specification.

   *  DNS Administrator: the owner or responsible party for the contents
      of a domain in the DNS.

   *  Intermediary: an internet-based service that leverages the
      services of other providers on behalf of a User.  For example, an
      Intermediary might be a service that allows for User-controlled
      websites and in-turn needs to use a Certification Authority
      provider to get TLS certificates for the User on behalf of the
      website.

   *  User: the owner or operator of a domain in the DNS who needs to
      prove ownership of that domain to an Application Service Provider,
      often on behalf of an account at the Application Service Provider,
      working in coordination with their DNS Administrator.

   *  Unique Token: a value that uniquely identifies the DNS domain
      control validation challenge, defined in Section 6.1.1.  Unique
      Tokens are constructed by the Application Service Provider in a
      way that guarantees uniqueness within the scope of the challenge,
      such as a random value.

   *  Validation Record: the DNS record that is used to prove ownership
      of a domain name ([RFC9499]).  It typically contains an
      unguessable value generated by the Application Service Provider
      which serves as the DNS challenge.  The Application Service
      Provider looks for the Validation Record in the zone of the domain
      name being verified and checks if it contains the unguessable
      value.

3.  Purpose of Domain Control Validation

   Domain Control Validation allows a User to demonstrate to an
   Application Service Provider that they have enough control over a
   domain to place a DNS challenge provided by Application Service
   Provider into the domain.  Because this challenge becomes publically
   visible as soon as it is published into the DNS, the security
   properties rely on the causal relationship between the Application
   Service Provider generating a specific challenge and the challenge
   appearing in the DNS at a specified location.  Domain Control
   Validation can be used either as a one-off or for a persistent
   validation depending on the application scenario:

   *  As a one-off validation, the Validation Record is time-bound, and
      it can be removed once its presence is confirmed by the
      Application Service Provider.  These are appropriate when the
      validation is being performed as part of an action such as
      requesting certificate issuance.

   *  As a persistent validation, the introduction of the Validation
      Record into the domain demonstrates to the Application Service
      Provider that the User had control over the domain at that time,
      and its continued presence demonstrates only that either the DNS
      Administrator of the domain has left the Validation Record in-
      place (perhaps unintentionally) or that a new owner of the domain
      has re-introduced the Validation Record.  The validation can be
      revoked by removing the Validation Record although this revocation
      will not be noticed until the Application Service Provider next
      checks for the presence of the record.

   Persistent validation is only appropriate for applications where the
   validation is tightly coupled to the User at the Application Service
   Provider, as once a token is disclosed there is no guarantee that it
   hasn't been copied by the new owner of a domain.

   Delegated Domain Validation (Section 7) is a method typically used as
   a way to adapt between these modes, with a persistent validation to
   an Intermediary enabling the Intermediary to transitively perform
   recurring one-off validations.

4.  Threat Model

   As Domain Control Verification is a mechanism trying to provide
   security properties over sometimes-insecure underlying protocols, it
   is important to be clear about both its threat model.

   While the specific primary Unacceptable Losses will depend on the
   nature of the Application Service Provider, they generalize to:

   *  UL1.  Application Service Provider believes a User has privileges
      on a domain name without this being authorized by the DNS
      Administrator for the domain.  The Threat Actor in this case is a
      malicious User leveraging these privileges in some way.

   *  UL2.  Application Service Provider, Intermediary, or other party
      gains unintended control over resources within a domain or on a
      domain name.  The Threat Actor in this case is the Application
      Service Provider, Intermediary, or other party leveraging this
      unintended control in some way.

4.1.  Hazards leading to Unauthorized Priviledges (UL1)

   For UL1, the Application-specific nature of these priviledges (such
   as being able to obtain a signed certificate covering the domain
   name, being able to use a social media handle under that domain, or
   being able to provision configurations associated with that domain
   int the Application Service Provider system) will determine the
   specifics of the underlying Unacceptable Loss.

   Domain Control Validation attempts to address UL1 by having the User
   demonstrate relationship between the Application Service Provider
   issuing a Unique Token and that Unique Token appearing in domain.
   Classes of Hazards include:

   *  H1.  Unique Token collision leading to an unassociated but
      matching Validation Record already being present in the domain,
      thus violating the causality property.

   *  H2.  Cross-User vulnerabilities leading to a Unique Token issued
      to one User being leveraged by a different User, due to
      vulnerabilities in how an Application Service Provider or
      Intermediary implements Domain Control Validation.

   *  H3.  Network and DNS based attacks leading to a Application
      Service Provider's validation system being tricked into believing
      that a valid Validation Record containing the Unique Token is
      present.  When DNS resolutions are not authenticated, this may be
      due to on-path network attackers, network attackers inserting
      themselves on-path (e.g., [RFC7132]), or other DNS protocol
      attacks (see [RFC3833].

   *  H4.  DNS Administrator errors, including human factor issues,
      leading to a Validation Record being unintentionally added or
      unintentionally persisting.

   *  H5.  Confusion over the scope of a Validation Record resulting in
      broader privileges being granted to the User than was intended by
      the DNS Administrator.  This is discussed more below in Section 5.

4.2.  Hazards leading to Unintended Access to Domain Resources (UL2)

   For UL2, unintended control over a domain or domain name results as a
   side-effect of the Domain Control Validation process itself.  Classes
   of Hazards include:

   *  H6.  The owner name of the Validation Record is meaningful in
      other contexts, enabling cross-protocol, privilege escalation,
      and/or confused deputy attacks.  For example, if a Validation
      Record is a CNAME and has an owner name that is a valid hostname,
      the Application Service Provider could provide services on the
      Validation Record name within the domain.

5.  Scope of Validation

   For security reasons (see H5 in Section 4.1), it is crucial to
   understand the scope of the domain name being validated.  Both
   Application Service Providers and the User need to clearly specify
   and understand whether the validation request is for a single
   hostname, a wildcard (all hostnames immediately under that domain),
   or for the entire domain and subdomains rooted at that name.  This is
   particularly important in large multi-tenant enterprises, where an
   individual deployer of a service may not necessarily have operational
   authority of an entire domain.

   In the case of X.509 certificate issuance, the certificate signing
   request and associated challenge are clear about whether they are for
   a single host or a wildcard domain.  Unfortunately, the ACME
   protocol's DNS-01 challenge mechanism ([RFC8555], Section 8.4) does
   not differentiate these cases in the DNS Validation Record.  In the
   absence of this distinction, the DNS administrator tasked with
   deploying the Validation Record may need to explicitly confirm the
   details of the certificate issuance request to make sure the
   certificate is not given broader authority than the User intended.

   In the more general case of an Internet application service granting
   authority to a domain owner, again no existing DNS challenge scheme
   makes this distinction today.  New applications should consider
   having different application names for different scopes, as
   described.  Regardless, services should very clearly indicate the
   scope of the validation in their public documentation so that the
   domain administrator can use this information to assess whether the
   Validation Record is granting the appropriately scoped authority.

6.  Recommendations

   All Domain Control Validation mechanisms are implemented by a DNS
   resource record with at least the following information:

   1.  A record name related to the domain name being validated, usually
       constructed by prepending an application specific label.

   2.  One or more Unique Tokens.

6.1.  TXT Record based Validation

   The RECOMMENDED method of doing DNS-based domain control validation
   is to use DNS TXT records as the Validation Record.  The QNAME is
   constructed as described in Section 6.2, and the RDATA MUST contain
   at least a Unique Token provided by the Application Service Provider
   (constructed according to the properties described in Section 6.1.1).
   If there are multiple character-strings within the RDATA, the
   Application Service Provider MUST treat them as a concatenated
   string.  If metadata (see Section 6.1.2) is not used, then the Unique
   Token generated as-above can be placed as the only contents of the
   RDATA.  For example:

   _example_service-challenge.example.com.  IN   TXT  "3419...3d206c4"

   This again allows the Application Service Provider to query only for
   application-specific records it needs, while giving flexibility to
   the User adding the DNS record (i.e., they can be given permission to
   only add records under a specific prefix by the DNS administrator).

   Application Service Providers MUST validate that a Unique Token in
   the TXT record matches the one that they gave to the User for that
   specific domain name.  Whether multiple Validation Records can exist
   for the same domain is up to the Application Service Provider's
   application specification.  In case there are multiple TXT records
   for the specific domain name, the Application Service Provider MUST
   confirm at least one record match.

6.1.1.  Unique Token

   A Unique Token is used in the challenge and is a value issued between
   parties (Application Service Provider to User, Application Service
   Provider to Intermediary, or Intermediary to User).  The Unique Token
   MUST be constructed in a manner which has adequate uniqueness so as
   to guarantee a causal relationship between its issuance and its
   appearance in a DNS record.  If multiple Application Service
   Providers are using the same Validation Record name then the Unique
   Token MUST be constructed in a way that prevents collisions.

   Examples of Unique Token construction include:

   *  A random token, such as constructed according to Section 6.1.1.1

   *  A URI [RFC3986] namespaced to the Application Service Provider and
      uniquely identifying the challenge or User

   *  A keyed cryptographic hash of information known to the Application
      Service Provider which uniquely identifies the challenge or User

   This Unique Token is placed in either the RDATA or an owner name, as
   described in the rest of this section.  Some methods of validation
   may involve multiple independent Unique Tokens.

   If sensitive information is used to derive a Unique Token, that
   information should be fed through a potentially keyed cryptographic
   hash as part of constructing the token.

   Base32 encoding ([RFC4648], Section 6) or hexadecimal base16 encoding
   ([RFC4648], Section 8) are RECOMMENDED to be specified when the
   Unique Token would exist in a DNS label such as in a CNAME target.
   This is because base64 relies on mixed case (and DNS is case-
   insensitive as clarified in [RFC4343]) and because some base64
   characters ("/", "+", and "=") may not be permitted by
   implementations that limit allowed characters to those allowed in
   hostnames.  If base32 is used, it SHOULD be specified in way that
   safely omits the trailing padding ("=").  Note that DNS labels are
   limited to 63 octets which limits how large such a token may be.

6.1.1.1.  Random Token Construction

   One way of constructing Unique Tokens is to use random values which:

   1.  have adequate entropy to guarantee uniqueness and ensure that an
       attacker is unable to create a situation where a collision occurs
       (see H1 in Section 4.1).

   2.  are base64url ([RFC4648], Section 5) encoded, base32 encoded, or
       hexadecimal base16 encoded.

6.1.2.  Token Metadata

   It may be desirable to associate metadata with the Unique Token in a
   Validation Record.  When specified, metadata SHOULD be encoded in the
   RDATA via space-separated ASCII key-value pairs, with the key "token"
   prefixing the Unique Token.  For example:

_example_service-challenge.example.com.  IN   TXT  "token=3419...3d206c4"

   If there are multiple tokens required, each one MUST be in a separate
   RR to allow them to match up with any additional attributes.  For
   example:

_example_service-challenge.example.com.  IN   TXT  "token=3419...3d206c4 attr=bar"
                             IN   TXT  "token=5454...45dc45a attr=quux"

   The token MUST be the first element in the key-value list.  If the
   TXT record RDATA is not prefixed with token= then the entire RDATA
   should be assumed to be the token (as this might split the trailing
   "==" or "=" at the end of base64 encoding).

   Keys are considered to be case-insensitive.  Each Validation Record
   consists of RDATA for val-record with the following grammar (with an
   ABNF per [RFC5234]):

   val-record     = keyvalue-list
   keyvalue-list  = keyvalue-pair *( SP keyvalue-pair )
   keyvalue-pair  = key [ "=" value ]

   key            = 1*key-char
   key-char       = ALPHA / DIGIT / "-" / "_"

   value          = 1*value-char
   value-char     = value-char = %x21-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E
                   ; All printable ASCII except space (0x20),
                   ; quotation mark (0x22), and backslash (0x5C)

   If an alternate syntax is used by the Application Service Provider
   for token metadata, they MUST specify a grammar for it.

6.2.  Validation Record Owner Name

   The RECOMMENDED format for a Validation Record's owner name is
   application-specific underscore prefix labels.  Domain Control
   Validation Records are constructed by the Application Service
   Provider by prepending the label "_<PROVIDER_RELEVANT_NAME>-
   challenge" to the domain name being validated (e.g.
   "_example_service-challenge.example.com").  The prefix "_" is used to
   avoid collisions with existing hostnames and to prevent the owner
   name from being a valid hostname (see H6 in Section 4.2).

   If an Application Service Provider has an application-specific need
   to have multiple validations for the same label, multiple prefixes
   can be used, such as "_<FEATURE>._<PROVIDER_RELEVANT_NAME>-
   challenge".

   Application owners SHOULD utilize the IANA "Underscored and Globally
   Scoped DNS Node Names" registry [UNDERSCORE-REGISTRY] and avoid using
   underscore labels that already exist in the registry.

   As a simplification, some applications may decide to omit the
   "-challenge" suffix and use just "_<PROVIDER_RELEVANT_NAME>" as the
   label.

6.3.  Time-bound checking and Expiration

   For persistent validations, Application Service Providers MUST
   provide clear instructions for how to perform revocations through the
   removal of a Validation Record, including details on the frequency at
   which re-validation is performed.  Application Service Providers MAY
   monitor for changes in domain ownership and request re-confirmation
   via a new token.

   For one-off validations, after domain control validation is completed
   there is typically no need for the Validation Record to continue to
   exist after being confirmed by the Application Service Provider.  It
   should be safe to remove the validation DNS record once the
   validation is complete.

   Application Service Providers MUST provide clear instructions on how
   long the challenge token is valid for, and thus when a Validation
   Record can be removed.  These instructions should preferably be
   encoded within the RDATA.

   The instructions for validity duration MAY be encoded in the RDATA as
   token metadata (Section 6.1.2 using the key "expiry" to hold a time
   after which it is safe to remove the Validation Record.  For example:

_example_service-challenge.example.com.  IN   TXT  "token=3419...3d206c4 expiry=2023-02-08"

   When an expiry time is specified, the value of "expiry" SHALL be in
   ISO 8601 format as specified in [RFC3339], Section 5.6.

   Alternatively, if the record should never expire (for instance,
   persistent validations that are checked periodically by the
   Application Service Provider) and should not be removed, the "expiry"
   key SHALL be set as "expiry=never".

   The "expiry" key MAY be omitted in cases where the Application
   Service Provider has clarified the record expiry policy out-of-band.
   In this case, the RDATA is set to "token=3419...3d206c4".  This is
   semantically identical to "3419...3d206c4".

   The User SHOULD de-provision the resource record provisioned for DNS-
   based domain control validation once it is no longer required.

6.4.  TTL Considerations

   The TTL [RFC1034] for Validation Records SHOULD be short to allow
   recovering from potential misconfigurations.  These records will not
   be polled frequently so caching or resolver load will not be an
   issue.

   The Application Service Provider looking up a Validation Record may
   have to wait for up to the SOA minimum TTL (negative caching TTL) of
   the enclosing zone for the record to become visible, if it has been
   previously queried.  If the application User wants to make the
   Validation Record visible more quickly they may need to work with the
   DNS administrator to see if they are willing to lower the SOA minimum
   TTL (which has implications across the entire zone).

   Application Service Providers' verifiers MAY wish to use dedicated
   DNS resolvers configured with a low maximum negative caching TTL,
   flush Validation Records from resolver caches prior to issuing
   queries or just directly query authoritative name servers to avoid
   caching.

7.  Delegated Domain Control Validation

   Delegated domain control validation lets a User delegate the domain
   control validation process for their domain to an Intermediary
   without granting the Intermediary the ability to make changes to
   their domain or zone configuration.  It is a variation of TXT record
   validation (Section 6.1) that indirectly inserts a CNAME record prior
   to the TXT record.

   The Intermediary gives the User a CNAME record to add for the domain
   and Application Service Provider being validated that points to the
   Intermediary's domain, where the actual validation TXT record is
   placed.  The canonical name in the CNAME record is constructed as a
   base16-encoded (or base32-encoded) Intermediary Unique Token
   (generated as in Section 6.1.1) prefixed onto a domain operated by
   the Intermediary.  For example:

_example_service-challenge.example.com.  IN   CNAME  <intermediary-unique-token>.dcv.intermediary.example.

   The Intermediary then adds the actual Validation Record in a domain
   they control:

<intermediary-unique-token>.dcv.intermediary.example.  IN   TXT "<provider-unique-token>"

   Such a setup is especially useful when the Application Service
   Provider wants to periodically re-issue the challenge with a new
   provider Unique Token.  CNAMEs allow automating the renewal process
   by letting the Intermediary place the Unique Token in their DNS zone
   instead of needing continuous write access to the User's DNS.

   Importantly, the CNAME record target also contains a Unique Token
   issued by the Intermediary to the User (preferably over a secure
   channel) which proves to the Intermediary that example.com is
   controlled by the User (see H2 in Section 4.1).  The Intermediary
   must keep an association of Users and domain names to the associated
   Intermediary-Unique-Tokens.  Without a linkage validated by the
   Intermediary during provisioning and renewal there is the risk that
   an attacker could leverage a "dangling CNAME" to perform a "subdomain
   takeover" attack ([SUBDOMAIN-TAKEOVER]).

   When a User stops using the Intermediary they should remove the
   domain control validation CNAME in addition to any other records they
   have associated with the Intermediary.

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Token Collisions

   If token values aren't long enough, lack adequate entropy, or are not
   unique there's a risk that a malicious actor could obtain a token
   that collides with one already present in a domain through repeated
   attempts (H1 in Section 4.1).

   Application Service Providers MUST evaluate the threat model for
   their particular application to determine a token construction
   mechanism that guarantees uniqueness and meets their security
   requirements (UL1 in Section 4).

   When Random Tokens are used, they MUST be constructed in a way that
   provides sufficient unpredictability to avoid collisions and brute
   force attacks.

8.2.  Service Confusion

   A malicious Application Service Provider that promises to deliver
   something after domain control validation could surreptitiously ask
   another Application Service Provider to start processing or sending
   mail for the target domain and then present the victim User with this
   DNS TXT record pretending to be for their service.  Once the User has
   added the DNS TXT record, instead of getting their service, their
   domain is now certifying another service of which they are not aware
   they are now a consumer.  If services use a clear description and
   name attribution in the required DNS TXT record, this can be avoided.
   For example, by requiring a DNS TXT record at _vendorname.example.com
   instead of at example.com, a malicious service could no longer
   forward a challenge from a different service without the User
   noticing.  Both the Application Service Provider and the service
   being authenticated and authorized should be unambiguous from the
   Validation Record to prevent malicious services from misleading the
   domain owner into certifying a different provider or service.  (H2,
   H4, H5, and H6 in Section 4)

8.3.  Service Collision

   As a corollary to Section 8.2, if the Validation Record is not well-
   scoped and unambiguous with respect to the Application Service
   Provider, it could be used to authorize use of another Application
   Service Provider or service in addition to the original Application
   Service Provider or service.  (H2, H4, H5, and H6 in Section 4)

8.4.  Scope Confusion

   Ambiguity of scope introduces risks, as described in Section 5.
   Distinguishing the scope in the application-specific label, along
   with good documentation, should help make it clear to DNS
   administrators whether the record applies to a single hostname, a
   wildcard, or an entire domain.  Always using this indication rather
   than having a default scope reduces ambiguity, especially for
   protocols that may have used a shared application-specific label for
   different scopes in the past.  While it would also have been possible
   to include the scope as an attribute in the TXT record, that has more
   potential for ambiguity and misleading an operator, such as if an
   implementation ignores an attribute it doesn't recognize but an
   attacker includes the attribute to mislead the DNS administrator.
   (H5 in Section 4)

8.5.  Authenticated Channels

   Application Service Providers and intermediaries should use
   authenticated channels to convey instructions and Unique Tokens to
   Users.  Otherwise, an attacker in the middle could alter the
   instructions, potentially allowing the attacker to provision the
   service instead of the User.  (H3 in Section 4.1)

8.6.  DNS Spoofing and DNSSEC Validation

   A domain owner SHOULD sign their DNS zone using DNSSEC [RFC9364] to
   protect Validation Records against DNS spoofing attacks, including
   from on-path attackers.

   Application Service Providers MUST use a trusted DNSSEC validating
   resolver to verify Validation Records they have requested to be
   deployed.  When the AD bit ([RFC4035] Section 3.2.3) is not set in
   DNS responses for Validation Records, Application Service Providers
   SHOULD take additional steps to reduce an attacker's ability to
   complete a challenge by spoofing DNS:

   *  Application Service Providers SHOULD attempt to query and confirm
      the Validation Record by matching responses from multiple DNS
      resolvers on unpredictable geographically diverse IP addresses

   *  Application Service Providers MAY perform multiple queries spread
      out over a longer time period to reduce the chance of receiving
      spoofed DNS answers.

   DNS Spoofing attacks are easier in the case of persistent validation
   as the expected result is publicly known.  For example, absent DNSSEC
   this could allow an on-path attacker to bypass a revocation by
   continuing to return a record that the DNS Operator had removed from
   the zone.

   The above are needed to address H3 in Section 4.1.

8.7.  Application Usage Enumeration

   The presence of a Validation Record with a predictable domain name
   (either as a TXT record for the exact domain name where control is
   being validated or with a well-known label) can allow attackers to
   enumerate the utilized set of Application Service Providers.

8.8.  Public Suffixes

   As discussed in Appendix A.2, there are risks in allowing control to
   be demonstrated over domains which are "public suffixes" (such as
   ".co.uk" or ".com").  The volunteer-managed Public Suffix List
   ([PSL]) is one mechanism that can be used.  It includes two
   "divisions" ([PSL-DIVISIONS]) covering both registry-owned public
   suffixes (the "ICANN" division) and a "PRIVATE" division covering
   domains submitted by the domain owner.

   Operators of domains which are in the "PRIVATE" public suffix
   division often provide multi-tenant services such as dynamic DNS, web
   hosting, and CDN services.  As such, they sometimes allow their sub-
   tenants to provision names as subdomains of their public suffix.
   There are use-cases that require operators of domains in the public
   suffix list to demonstrate control over their domain, such as to be
   added to the Public Suffix List, or to provision a wildcard
   certificate.  At the same time, if an operator of such a domain
   allows its customers or tenants to create names starting with an
   underscore ("_") then it opens up substantial risk to the domain
   operator for attackers to provision services on their domain.

   Whether it is appropriate to allow domain verification on a public
   suffix will depend on the application.  In the general case:

   *  Application Service Providers SHOULD NOT allow verification of
      ownership for domains which are public suffixes in the "ICANN"
      division.  For example, "_example_service-challenge.co.uk" would
      not be allowed.

   *  Application Service Providers MAY allow verification of ownership
      for domains which are public suffixes in the "PRIVATE" division,
      although it would be preferable to apply additional safety checks
      in this case.

8.9.  Unintentional Persistence

   When persistent domain validation is used, a DNS Administrator
   failing to remove a no-longer desired Validation Record could enable
   a User to continue to have access to the domain within the
   Application Service Provider's service.  (H4 in Section 4.1)

   When one-off domain validation is used, this is typically implemented
   through automation where a DNS Administrator grants the User access
   to make updates to the domain's zone configuration.  If the DNS
   Administrator fails to revoke access to a User who should no longer
   have access, this would enable the User to continue to perform new
   validations.

8.10.  Reintroduction of Validation Records

   When a domain has a new owner, that new owner could add a Validation
   Record that was present in the previous version of the domain.  In
   the case of persistent validation this could be used to claim that
   the original User still has access to the domain within the
   Application Service Provider's service.  Applications implementing
   persistent domain validation need to include this risk within their
   threat model.  (H1 and H4 in Section 4.1)

8.11.  Validations not Coupled to Users

   If an Application Service Provider does not properly associate Domain
   Validation with Users, the new owner of a domain could potentially
   gain access to Application Service Provider resources associated with
   the previous owner of a domain.  Application Service Providers need
   to take care that re-validation of a domain by a different User is
   not necessarily treated as "reactivation" in a way that grants access
   to potentially sensitive resources stored and associated with a
   domain.  (H2 in Section 4.1)

9.  Privacy Considerations

   As records are visible in the DNS they should be considered to be
   public information.  While information in the Unique Token can be
   helpful to DNS Administrators, some constructions of Unique Tokens
   can leak information identifying a User either directly (e.g.
   containing the User's identity or account identifier) or indirectly
   (e.g., an unkeyed hash of a username).

10.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

   [RFC1034]  Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - concepts and facilities",
              STD 13, RFC 1034, DOI 10.17487/RFC1034, November 1987,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1034>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC3339]  Klyne, G. and C. Newman, "Date and Time on the Internet:
              Timestamps", RFC 3339, DOI 10.17487/RFC3339, July 2002,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3339>.

   [RFC4035]  Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S.
              Rose, "Protocol Modifications for the DNS Security
              Extensions", RFC 4035, DOI 10.17487/RFC4035, March 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4035>.

   [RFC4648]  Josefsson, S., "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data
              Encodings", RFC 4648, DOI 10.17487/RFC4648, October 2006,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4648>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC9364]  Hoffman, P., "DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC)", BCP 237,
              RFC 9364, DOI 10.17487/RFC9364, February 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9364>.

11.2.  Informative References

   [I-D.draft-tjw-dbound2-problem-statement]
              Wicinski, T., "Domain Boundaries 2.0 Problem Statement",
              Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-tjw-dbound2-
              problem-statement-01, 10 July 2023,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-tjw-dbound2-
              problem-statement-01>.

   [PSL]      Mozilla Foundation, "Public Suffix List", 2022,
              <https://publicsuffix.org/>.

   [PSL-DIVISIONS]
              Frakes, J., "Public Suffix List format", 2022,
              <https://github.com/publicsuffix/list/wiki/
              Format#divisions>.

   [RFC3833]  Atkins, D. and R. Austein, "Threat Analysis of the Domain
              Name System (DNS)", RFC 3833, DOI 10.17487/RFC3833, August
              2004, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3833>.

   [RFC3986]  Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter, "Uniform
              Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax", STD 66,
              RFC 3986, DOI 10.17487/RFC3986, January 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986>.

   [RFC4086]  Eastlake 3rd, D., Schiller, J., and S. Crocker,
              "Randomness Requirements for Security", BCP 106, RFC 4086,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC4086, June 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4086>.

   [RFC4343]  Eastlake 3rd, D., "Domain Name System (DNS) Case
              Insensitivity Clarification", RFC 4343,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC4343, January 2006,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4343>.

   [RFC5234]  Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell, "Augmented BNF for Syntax
              Specifications: ABNF", STD 68, RFC 5234,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC5234, January 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5234>.

   [RFC6672]  Rose, S. and W. Wijngaards, "DNAME Redirection in the
              DNS", RFC 6672, DOI 10.17487/RFC6672, June 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6672>.

   [RFC7132]  Kent, S. and A. Chi, "Threat Model for BGP Path Security",
              RFC 7132, DOI 10.17487/RFC7132, February 2014,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7132>.

   [RFC8555]  Barnes, R., Hoffman-Andrews, J., McCarney, D., and J.
              Kasten, "Automatic Certificate Management Environment
              (ACME)", RFC 8555, DOI 10.17487/RFC8555, March 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8555>.

   [RFC9210]  Kristoff, J. and D. Wessels, "DNS Transport over TCP -
              Operational Requirements", BCP 235, RFC 9210,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9210, March 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9210>.

   [RFC9499]  Hoffman, P. and K. Fujiwara, "DNS Terminology", BCP 219,
              RFC 9499, DOI 10.17487/RFC9499, March 2024,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9499>.

   [RFC9715]  Fujiwara, K. and P. Vixie, "IP Fragmentation Avoidance in
              DNS over UDP", RFC 9715, DOI 10.17487/RFC9715, January
              2025, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9715>.

   [SUBDOMAIN-TAKEOVER]
              Mozilla, "Subdomain takeovers", n.d.,
              <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/
              Subdomain_takeovers>.

   [UNDERSCORE-REGISTRY]
              IANA, "Underscored and Globally Scoped DNS Node Name",
              n.d., <https://www.iana.org/assignments/dns-parameters/
              dns-parameters.xhtml#underscored-globally-scoped-dns-node-
              names>.

Appendix A.  Appendix

A.1.  Common Pitfalls

   A very common but unfortunate technique in use today is to employ a
   DNS TXT record and placing it at the exact domain name whose control
   is being validated (e.g., often the zone apex).  This has a number of
   known operational issues.  If the User has multiple application
   services employing this technique, it will end up with multiple DNS
   TXT records having the same owner name; one record for each of the
   services.

   Since DNS resource record sets are treated atomically, a query for
   the Validation Record will return all TXT records in the response.
   There is no way for the verifier to specifically query only the TXT
   record that is pertinent to their application service.  The verifier
   must obtain the aggregate response and search through it to find the
   specific record it is interested in.

   Additionally, placing many such TXT records at the same name
   increases the size of the DNS response.  If the size of the UDP
   response (UDP being the most common DNS transport today) is large
   enough that it does not fit into the Path MTU of the network path,
   this may result in IP fragmentation, which can be unreliable due to
   firewalls and middleboxes is vulnerable to various attacks
   ([RFC9715]).  Depending on message size limits configured or being
   negotiated, it may alternatively cause the DNS server to "truncate"
   the UDP response and force the DNS client to re-try the query over
   TCP in order to get the full response.  Not all networks properly
   transport DNS over TCP and some DNS software mistakenly believe TCP
   support is optional ([RFC9210]).  Huge TXT RRsets (due to many TXT
   records at the same name) can also be leveraged by attackers for
   traffic amplication attacks.

   Other possible issues may occur.  If a TXT record (or any other
   record type) is designed to be placed at the same domain name that is
   being validated, it may not be possible to do so if that name already
   has a CNAME record.  This is because CNAME records cannot co-exist
   with other (non-DNSSEC) records at the same name.  This situation
   cannot occur at the apex of a DNS zone, but can at a name deeper
   within the zone.

   When multiple distinct services specify placing Validation Records at
   the same owner name, there is no way to delegate an application
   specific domain Validation Record to a third party.  Furthermore,
   even without delegation, an organization may have a shared DNS zone
   where they need to provide record level permissions to the specific
   division within the organization that is responsible for the
   application in question.  This can't be done if all applications
   expect to find validation records at the same name.

A.2.  Domain Boundaries

   The hierarchical structure of domain names do not necessarily define
   boundaries of ownership and administrative control (e.g., as
   discussed in [I-D.draft-tjw-dbound2-problem-statement]).  Some domain
   names are "public suffixes" ([RFC9499]) where care may need to be
   taken when validating control.  For example, there are security risks
   if an Application Service Provider can be tricked into believing that
   an attacker has control over ".co.uk" or ".com".  The volunteer-
   managed Public Suffix List [PSL] is one mechanism available today
   that can be useful for identifying public suffixes.

   Future specifications may provide better mechanisms or
   recommendations for defining domain boundaries or for enabling
   organizational administrators to place constraints on domains and
   subdomains.

A.3.  Interactions with DNAME

   Domain control validation in the presence of a DNAME [RFC6672] is
   possible with caveats.  Since a DNAME record redirects the entire
   subtree of names underneath the owner of the DNAME, it is not
   possible to place a Validation Record under the DNAME owner itself.
   It would have to be placed under the DNAME target name, since any
   lookups for a name under the DNAME owner will be redirected to the
   corresponding name under the DNAME target.

Appendix B.  Acknowledgments

   Thank you to John Levine, Daniel Kahn Gillmor, Amir Omidi, Tuomo
   Soini, Ben Kaduk, Paul Hoffman, Ángel González, and many others for
   their feedback and suggestions on this document.

Authors' Addresses

   Shivan Sahib
   Brave Software
   Email: shivankaulsahib@gmail.com


   Shumon Huque
   Salesforce
   Email: shuque@gmail.com


   Paul Wouters
   Aiven
   Email: paul.wouters@aiven.io


   Erik Nygren
   Akamai Technologies
   Email: erik+ietf@nygren.org


   Tim Wicinski
   Cox Communications
   Email: tjw.ietf@gmail.com
